I saw a shot before persisting baby, before persisting baby
In 1989, a sex researcher named Ray Blanchard published a controversial, provocative, politically
incorrect theory claiming that trans women are not, as custom has it, essentially female
souls accidentally born into male bodies.
Instead, he claimed, they are men of two types, gay men who love straight men, and straight
men who love themselves.
For the latter condition, Blanchard coined the term autogynophilia, new Greek for love
of oneself as a woman.
It's a theory that contradicts what almost all trans women say and believe about themselves,
and affirms the common prejudice that trans people are really just sex perverts, which
is, okay, some of us are, but not for the reasons Blanchard says.
Rest assured, in this video I am going to argue that Blanchard's theory is false, but
a lot of trans women are probably nervously wondering why I'm using my platform to potentially
increase awareness of a sinister fringe theory that only adds to the stigma we all already
face.
After all, autogynophilia gives scientific legitimacy to our culture's most twisted
misrepresentations of trans women.
So it's understandable that to a lot of trans women, the prospect of this concept gaining
cultural traction is pretty terrifying.
However, I respond that, as one of YouTube's leading B-list transsexuals, I've had several
conversations with academics and journalists where it becomes clear that they believe in
Blanchard's theory, even if the cowards would admit it to my face.
So as I see it, the damage is already done, what's needed now is an accessible, convincing
refutation of the theory.
I hope this video will accomplish three things.
One, persuasively argue that the wrong theory is wrong, two, account for how a wrong theory
became so influential, and three, move beyond some of the platitudes about trans people
and open up a deeper discussion about what it really means to be transgender.
Socrates, you know the drill.
Two, Blanchard's typology.
The mainstream scientific view endorsed by the World Professional Association for Transgender
Health, the DSM-5, and most practicing clinicians is that the primary reason trans people transition
is to alleviate gender dysphoria.
Gender dysphoria is a state of social, emotional, anatomical, sexual, spiritual, and sartorial
angst relating to one's assigned birth sex, which is mostly relieved by socially and
medically transitioning to the gender of one's psychological identity.
This is what motivated me to transition, and I endorse the mainstream scientific view.
However, sex researcher Blanchard has a different theory.
According to Blanchard, trans women are driven to transition primarily by sexual motivations.
He didn't really bother to think about trans men or non-binary people, so you all are excused.
You can just grab a beer and laugh it up.
Blanchard claims that trans women can be divided into two types of men.
And yeah, I know, just hold your objections for the end.
The first type are the homosexual transsexuals.
These gay boys cannot get enough dick.
And who can blame them?
Essentially, the homosexual transsexuals are naturally effeminate gay men, who transition
because one, society is more accepting of them as women than is very effeminate men,
and two, becoming women is a good sexual strategy for them, since they do better as women in
the heterosexual dating market than as male fems in the mask-for-mask dominated gay scene.
The second type of trans women are the autogenophilic transsexuals.
These inscrutable perverts can apparently get off just by looking in the mirror.
I fucking saw.
Blanchard describes autogenophiles as straight, bi, or self-avowed asexual men.
It doesn't really matter because their primary sexual orientation is misdirected inward,
leading to paraphilic sexual arousal at the thought of being or becoming women, which
is their true motivation to transition.
Now I'm going to argue that this theory is wrong, but first I want to acknowledge
that there does seem to be some observational validity to the claim that trans women tend
to fall into one of two clusters of correlated traits.
I'll replace the stigmatizing terms homosexual transsexual and autogenophile with more neutral
language, let's say Cluster A and Cluster B. Cluster A trans women are mostly androphilic,
that is, attracted to men.
They transition relatively early in life and are very effeminate as children.
Cluster B trans women are mostly gynophilic, attracted to women,
transition relatively later in life, and have outwardly boyish childhoods.
When I first thought about this typology, it initially seemed pretty valid.
I went through the mental list of trans women I know and found I could pretty easily sort them.
Cluster A, Cluster A, Cluster B, Cluster B.
But as I've thought about it more, it's partially unravelled.
Without even leaving my circle of acquaintances, I can think of a trans woman who followed all
the Cluster A patterns but now dates women, and a trans woman who followed all the Cluster B patterns
but now exclusively dates men.
So while I think there may really be two genuine trends here,
I interpret them merely as correlation clusters that get fuzzy around the edges.
Blanchard, however, takes homosexual transsexuals and autogenophiles to be two sharply distinct
types, with two completely different psychosexual motivations to transition.
And this is what I strongly disagree with, the notion that male homosexual strategy,
or autogenophilic lust, are the primary motivations to transition.
And I have a lot of backup here since trans women almost universally reject
this characterization of their experience.
Now you'd think that'd be a major problem for the theory,
but fortunately Blanchard has an airtight response to that,
namely that trans women who disagree with him are fucking liars.
I mean that's really the scientific ideal, isn't it?
A theory that can't be falsified.
It's perfect.
3. The Man Who Would Be Queen
Blanchard's theory likely would have been glanced at by a handful of psychologists
before fading into the endless sea of forgotten academic publications
had it not been given a major publicity boost by J. Michael Bailey,
a Northwestern psychology professor who endorsed Blanchard's theory in a 2003
pop science book titled The Man Who Would Be Queen.
Great cover, Bailey.
Very controversial, very provocative, very politically incorrect.
I have been triggered.
Well done.
Now Bailey, I read your book which, considering how much I enjoy your cream,
was just amazingly bad.
The Man Who Would Be Queen is a frightening book for trans women
because it's acutely transphobic but also kind of vivid and well-written
and it introduced a wide audience to Blanchard's typology.
The first two parts of the book describe homosexual transsexuals,
including Bailey's and his male research assistants' observations
that they're super fuckable and natural-born sex workers.
I start upstairs to get the panoramic view and I see Kim
for the first time on the stairs dancing, posing.
She is spectacular, exotic.
I find out later that she is from Belize and sexy.
Her body is incredibly curvaceous, which is a clue that it may not be natural.
And I notice a very subtle and not unattractive angularity of the face,
which is also not clearly diagnostic on this tall siren.
It is difficult to avoid viewing Kim from two perspectives,
as a researcher but also as a single heterosexual man.
Wow, Bailey. Great science rating.
When he's done drooling all over the homosexual transsexuals,
Bailey moves on to the autokinophilic transsexuals,
focusing almost entirely on a single case study of a trans woman he calls Cher,
whose backstory is a stomach-churning nightmare of autoerotic mania and transvestic masturbation.
Bailey describes how Cher made videos of herself wearing female masks and vaginal prostheses
while receiving anal sex from a sex robot of her own construction,
all to the accompaniment of a Donna Summers album and the moaning audio from a porno film.
It honestly sounds like something I would do in a video as a joke.
So well done, Bailey. You've found an honest-to-god pervert.
And look, as a performance artist, I love the sex robot.
I admire it. I want it in my life.
But as a transsexual, I mean, Bailey, this has nothing to do with being trans.
You just found a person who built a sex robot.
That's not how Bailey sees it though.
He upholds Cher as an exemplary case of an autokinophilic transsexual,
claiming that Cher's sexual fetishism is typical of the motivations of all trans women
who aren't exclusively attracted to men.
So Bailey's telling is that autokinophiles are these unfeminine male masturbators
showing up to gender clinics with bogus stories of how they always knew they were women
in order to get genital reassignment surgery to satisfy their paraphilia.
Now what's striking about this to me is even for a defensive Blanchard's theory,
Bailey's account is more lurid and grotesque than it needs to be.
Bailey likes to think of himself as a dangerous libertine philosopher,
pursuing the light of truth wherever it may lead,
unrestrained by conventional morality and political correctness alike.
You're so filthy.
But what does the unrestrained pursuit of truth look like?
What objective methodologies does Bailey employ?
Well, for the most part, it seems like he just goes to gay bars in Chicago and chats up trans women
turning these stories into case studies for his book.
Sounds like an awful lot of fun for scientific research.
You need a research assistant, Bailey?
The man who would be queen is filled with sentences like,
There is no way to say this as sensitively as I would prefer it, so I'll just go ahead.
All right, you edgy fuck.
Let's hear it.
Most homosexual transsexuals are much better looking than most
auto kind of feeling transsexual.
We appreciate the feedback, Bailey.
We really do.
But is this science?
It's effectively a straight cis man announcing his discovery
that young straight chicks are hotter than middle-aged lesbians
and trying to pass it off as a valid empirical observation.
And like the pop science cis-head men have written over the past century
regarding the nature of females and homosexuals,
their observations about trans women are seriously lacking some vital perspectives.
This is what we post-modernists mean when we complain that science often privileges
a white cis-head male perspective.
It's not that I hate men or male sexuality,
I just hate that the male sexual perspective is so powerful that it gets to call itself science.
It's not that there is no objective truth,
it's that this represents a very narrow window on it.
Wouldn't anyone care to hear a different perspective?
Well, how about mine?
4. My Perspective
From my perspective, Michael Bailey is a lecherous edgelord.
He's a man who, when I was a student in Northwestern,
was mostly famous for the fucksaw incident.
Google it.
Of course, that doesn't mean that the fundamental claims of his book aren't true.
Even if we could prove that Bailey gets together every weekend with Blanchard
to sacrifice a trans baby to Beelzebub,
it would still have no bearing on the scientific correctionist of the theory,
which might still be true.
The problem is, it isn't true, which I'll argue at length in a moment.
But first, it's worth noting that the theory has gained acceptance among a non-trivial number
of academics and journalists, largely because 1, it's often presented as the only supposedly
scientific alternative to mushy platitudes about women born in men's bodies,
and 2, many trans women have reacted to Bailey and Blanchard
with extreme vitriol and personal attacks, resulting in the widespread perception
that a bunch of triggered PC cocks are throwing a narcissistic male entitlement temper tantrum
because Bailey and Blanchard accurately called them out as paraphylic fetishists.
In her 2015 book Galileo's Middle Finger,
bioethicist Alice Drager championed Bailey as the undeserving victim of a hysterical SJW lynch mob.
But she gets so caught up in exonerating Bailey of the personal accusations against him
and in telling a bigger story about academic freedom and how scientists are being silenced
by PC cocks that she doesn't bother to check how good Bailey's science really is,
and ends up affirming the autogynophilia theory herself.
Now I'm certainly not going to deny that trans people on the internet can sometimes behave like
a bit of an angry mob. In fact, I may be on the receiving end of one of those myself in about,
oh, 20 minutes, depending on how this video is received.
But there's not exactly a shortage of sleazy passive aggression from the Blanchard and Bailey
camp either. Blanchard is known to seek out and comment on pornography made by his detractors,
and Drager is an advocate for the narcissistic rage theory of trans backlash against Bailey.
Remember, according to autogynophilia theory, many trans women are erotically fixated on themselves,
from which a dishonest person can make a conceptual leap to saying that they're narcissists,
and hence any trans woman who raises her voice in this conversation is accused of exhibiting
narcissistic rage emanating from her wounded male ego. Furthermore, like so many other professors
and recent academic freedom controversies, Blanchard and Bailey being ruthlessly silenced by PC cocks
has not really interfered with their academic careers, nor their continued authority to
misrepresent people with less power than them. This is of course assuming that autogynophilia
really is a misrepresentation of trans women, and that's really the crux of this whole drama,
isn't it? So let's just leave the drama behind and dive right into that question,
pursuing the pure light of truth, as we always do on this channel, relying only on the facts,
the figures, the scientific studies. Just kidding. If you really want to read a scientific argument
against autogynophilia, read Julia Serrano's article The Case Against Autogynophilia,
which pretty much sums it up. Because I know that you didn't click on this video because you wanted
to hear about science, you came here because you wanted filth, and I'll give you filth, Bailey.
I know that's what you want, and I want to give you what you want. I want to give it all up for you.
5. The False Psychotomy Filth is coming, don't worry, but before we
get there, there's one more thing we need to discuss. Advocates of Blanchard's theory pretty
much unanimously introduce it as if it were the only possible alternative to what's called the
feminine essence theory. The feminine essence theory says that trans women are female souls
and male bodies, that we are women from birth to death, and that transition is merely an effort to
make our accidental exterior match our essential interior. People like Drager will tell you that
trans activists dogmatically adhere to this theory, and that anyone who challenges it will
be pursued by a ruthless witch hunt. And of course, the only way to challenge it, we're told,
is to defer to Blanchard's typology of homosexual and autogynophilic transsexuals.
Now I object to this framing of the discussion because I don't believe in Blanchard's typology
or the feminine essence theory. There is no feminine singularity that made me a woman from
birth. I wasn't born a woman. I was born a fucking baby, just like everyone else. There's no such
thing as a feminine essence or a masculine essence. There's only biology, habitual behavior, and the
way society responds to you, all of which can be changed quite a lot, and all of which are
currently changing for me. Now there is an emotional appeal to the feminine essence theory.
I think most people have gender-essentialist intuitions, and I admit I do feel on some level
that I'm supposed to be a woman by nature. And in a sense that may be true. I don't think I chose
to be trans, and it seems likely that there's something inherent in my biology or psychology
that led me to transition. But that's not quite the same thing as essential womanhood,
which intellectually I don't think makes sense. I think it's heartwarming gibberish.
But there is also, I think, a legitimate role in the discourse for heartwarming gibberish.
Sometimes you have to explain what it means to be trans to a person who believes that dogs go to
heaven. And in most circumstances, saying I'm a female soul in a male body gets the point across.
Not all language is philosophical. It's a lot easier to explain what being trans is in
essentialist terms. To explain it without gender-essentialism, it requires a whole,
complicated philosophical discussion that most people simply aren't up to having. But the useful
platitudes become a problem when more analytically-minded people start putting these things under
the microscope, and then they end up concluding that trans people are just fetishists who are
telling lies about themselves. So you're probably wondering, if I'm not a fetishist, and not
essentially a woman, then why am I transitioning? Well I keep saying this, but dysphoria really was
the primary reason. And shortly before I transitioned, I made a whole video about that
if you're curious. You have to keep in mind that transitioning is not just for the bedroom. When you
decide you're going to live as a woman, you have to do that at the grocery store and on airplanes
and at Thanksgiving dinner with your family if you even still have a family. It's kind of hard for me
to imagine why someone would do that just to gratify a masturbatory urge. That said, is there
some sexual aspect of being transgender? Well of course there goddamn is. How could an adult decide
to switch genders without there being some connection to sexuality? The problem is autogenophilia
is not a good description of that connection in most cases, and it certainly isn't in my case.
But I'm a 29-year-old transsexual with a history of dating women and cross-dressing and erotic
situations no less. According to Blanchard's theory, I'm therefore an autogenophile. It seems
that I have some explaining to do. Well, here's where the filth comes in.
6. Contra Points and Erotic Life
Come one, come all to the gender circus with your host Natalie. Step right up you filthy freaks.
One of the reasons it's difficult for trans women to refute Blanchard's theory is that even arguing
against it from your own experience is incredibly humiliating and degrading and invalidating.
Fortunately I have no sense of self-respect or dignity whatsoever, so I'm willing to take one
for the team here. Get your clipboards out gentlemen, I want to make this as easy as
possible for the psychoanalysts at home. I was born in 1988. As a small child I was not
especially feminine nor especially masculine. I was not interested in sports and was just kind of
physically inept. My main childhood interest was music and I learned several instruments.
In early adolescence I was misdiagnosed with OCD, the primary symptoms being spending too much time
in the shower and spending too much time styling my hair. My sexual development was kind of late.
I never masturbated till I was 15 and I didn't fantasize about having sex with women or with men
or even about becoming a woman. My fantasies were kind of platonic almost. I would sort of
fantasize about women but in a very abstract kind of way. An early romantic disappointment involved
my realization that women would never be attracted to me in the same way that I was attracted to them.
In my late teens and early 20s I was a long haired smooth chested androgyne which suited me well.
It was around then that I first cross-tressed when a woman I was seeing asked if she could
dress me up in her clothes and do my makeup. God yes, I said. Throughout my 20s I was on and off
in relationships where there was this feminization dynamic. More women are into feminizing boys than
you might think. When I was feminized it would just make out and not do anything penetrative
but just sort of little proto-lesbian things, you know? Now some women I was with were not into that
and some would practically lock their underwear drawers when they found out I had done it in the
past. There was one period where I cut my hair short and quit that all together but it didn't
last more than a couple years. When I had regular heterosexual sex it was like my soul had to leave
my body in order for me to get the poison out which is how I thought of it. The cross-dressing
was never a solo or a masturbatory activity. There was always a partner or sometimes several
partners. Bailey are you paying attention to this? This is for you. What I liked about it was the way
that dressing like a woman changed the way partners interacted with my body, how they would kind of
treat me like a woman. I fully acknowledged that a lot of the feminization was pretty fetishistic.
There was a lot of short dresses and thigh highs and occasionally also a BDSM submissive aspect.
But over time I realized that the fetish aspect wasn't really what I liked about it. It wasn't
humiliating for me to be feminized, it was affirming. And one day I kind of realized
that I didn't want to be feminized at all. I wanted to be feminine. In my mid-20s I first
started really paying attention to trans women and thinking about transitioning myself but I
thought that since I didn't feel like a woman that I never would and I thought that I would never
pass and that I would just be a hideous parody of womanhood. Then about a year ago, thanks to
this amazing online queer community that we have now, I started developing more positive thinking
about this. I've always looked a little bit younger than my age but last year I also started
noticing the first signs that I was going to age into the body of an older man and that triggered
really intense gender dysphoria. At the same time I realized that I would have to transition to have
any hope of a genuinely fulfilling sex life. And at that point the need to transition felt so urgent
that I could not wait. So I got internet hormones from the Republic of Vanuatu and I started taking
those in August until I could get a prescription from an informed consent clinic and since then
my life has drastically changed. I live as a woman full-time now and most of the changes aren't
sexual but the hormones certainly do have sexual effects. I now find myself attracted to both women
and men and the mere visual image of a woman no longer turns me on the way it did. Instead
I need there to be a certain kind of interpersonal connection. I don't masturbate at all and I
haven't come in months. Someone please fuck me. I guess the critical thing is that I've been
wearing women's clothes, my clothes, for seven consecutive months and I have been turned on by
it for zero percent of the time. So the idea that I'm some kind of transvestic fetishist is ridiculous
and I'm not turned on by the mere idea of having a female body either. I mean when there's
developments I'll check it out but I'm not like oh yeah I have tits now that's so hot.
I mean it's kind of hot but it's more about other people being into it than it is about me being
into it. So as always my sex drive is directed outward at other people. The sexual aspect of my
transsexuality is not about the target of lust being directed inward. It's about me wanting my
sexual encounters to occur from the standpoint of a female body or you know at least as close as I
can get. And since I started hormones it's about my sexual desires coming from this psychologically
female place of vague bisexual interest activated by interpersonal connection rather than intense
object-oriented male lust. So that's my attempt to describe my sexual history without resorting to
politically correct cuckoldry or trans ideology. Now I've read enough Blanchard to know that this
description in no way lets me off the hook for autogenophilia. In fact I'm what Blanchard would
call a classic case of pseudo bisexual behavioral autogenophilia. Pseudo bisexual because of course
all trans women's experiences are lies and because according to Blanchard I only like guys because
being filled up with their dicks makes me feel like a girl which is what I'm really into. And
behavioral because Blanchard describes different kinds of autogenophilia like anatomic transvestic
behavioral and physiological according to what you supposedly fetishize. And I'm turned on by
sexually behaving like a woman rather than simply wearing female clothes or having female anatomy.
And I mean okay you can slap a Greek word on anything and make it sound scary,
fake, and pathological but I think this is an especially unfair way to characterize my experience
and here's why. 7. Autophilia in General
I'm guessing that most people would be pretty reluctant to admit that they take any kind of
sexual interest in their own bodies. It's sort of like admitting that you enjoy your own body odor.
Ew. But how unusual is it to check yourself out, to take some sexual interest in the sight or touch
of your own body? I've noticed that cis men seem to really like their own penises
and taking pictures of their penises and sending them to other people. Does that make them
autoandrophiles? Are they behavioral autophalophiles? I can make up Greek words too,
Blanchard. I know a cis woman who, having just bought some expensive lingerie, told me,
it's not for men, it's for me. What does that mean? It means she enjoyed wearing
sexy lingerie under her clothes because it made her feel hot. Is that cisvestic autogenophilia?
Likewise, I use to date cis women, I know what they do, and I can tell you that women touching
their own breasts during sex or while masturbating is not at all uncommon. Is that anatomical
autogenophilia? Twitter user Nathan of Oz pointed out that in the October 2017 issue of Cosmo,
an article on self-love tips recommends that its apparently cis female readers try stroking their
own feet or running a feather over their skin as a prelude to kneeling in front of a full-length
mirror and rubbing one out, possibly while squatting on a dildo. Can you imagine the level of
paraphilic male fetishism that would be read into this if it was written by a trans woman? I mean,
it's one step away from filming yourself fucking a sex robot. And okay, Cosmo's sex advice is often
ludicrous, but the point is, it seems like it's only when it comes to trans women that we feel
the need to whip out the suffix philia. It seems what's going on here is a lot of pathologizing of
normal female sexuality when it exists in trans women, but of course that raises the question,
what is normal female sexuality? 8. Normal Female Sexuality. Switching from male to female hormones
causes your sex drive to be completely obliterated and then regrown in new form, which came as more
of a relief to me than I expected. I don't think I realized the extent to which my own sexuality
felt like a demonic possession or alien infection until I was free of it, thank god. When I had male
hormones in me, I needed to have an orgasm like every day. I was turned on mainly by visual arousal
cues. I was at a Kinsey one relative to my birth sex and I had a couple mild, typical, straight guy
paraphilic kinks. No, not autogynophilia. On female hormones, I initially had no sex drive at all,
but I've started developing very different patterns of arousal. For instance, I never need to have an
orgasm. I'm turned on mainly by interpersonal cues like intimate physical contact or close emotional
moments. I'm at around a 70-30 attraction to women versus men and the paraphilic kinks have vanished
without a trace. Oh by the way, for the pharmacologists at home, this is 6 milligrams estradiol and 200
milligrams spironolactone daily. So my interpretation of all this is that I have what is a pretty typical
female sexuality, at least for a girl who's into girls. I don't feel like I have some essentially
male pseudo bisexual behavioral autogynophilia. One of the reasons why Blanchard has to come up with
elaborate terminology like this is he takes as foundational the presupposition that trans women
are psychologically more like cis men than cis women. His studies therefore lack a cis female
control group, meaning he didn't bother to apply his autogynophilia survey to cis women. But if he
had, as Charles Moser did in 2009, he might have found that many of them were classified as
autogynophilic. Blanchard's insistence on classifying trans women's sexuality as a variant on
male sexuality makes it seem paraphilic and unusual that trans women want to have sex as women.
But what is cis women want to have sex as? Walruses? I mean no judgments. This also explains his
claim that non-exclusively androphilic trans women are pseudo bisexual because their attraction to
men does not resemble gay male attraction to men. The idea is that these trans women's attraction
to men is not based on raw physical lust, so it is therefore unlike gay male attraction to men and
is therefore pseudo. That is, it's really an autogynophilic fantasy where the man is just a prop.
But what about straight cis women's attraction to men? Is that based on raw physical lust for the
male body? I mean sometimes it probably is, and I'm not a cis woman so I can't really say. But I
kind of suspect that cis female heterosexuality is not best described as raw physical lust for the
male body. That is, I suspect it's quite different from cis male homosexuality if I may risk painting
with broad strokes. Take the case of Playgirl magazine, which at its peak published feminist
articles alongside naked hunks but never had the circulation of its male counterpart and later on
ended up just being read by gay men. From the perspective of female sexuality, I mean men's
bodies are nice, they have great hands, great abs, great this part, it's all great. But it's not
that great. And if you read pornography written by women and notice that it's usually written and
not photographed, you don't find a predominant focus on vivid descriptions of male bodies.
Like in Fifty Shades of Grey, which I read for research purposes, there's some description of
Christian's hot bod and his hot abs, but it's not the main thing by any means. There's a lot more
sentences like. To the right is an imposing U-shaped sofa that could seat 10 adults comfortably.
It faces a state-of-the-art stainless steel, or maybe platinum for all I know. Modern fireplace.
Near the kitchen area in front of the glass wall is a dining table surrounded by 16 chairs,
and tucked in the corner is a full-sized shiny black grand piano. Here, he hands me a glass of
wine. Even the glasses are rich. Heavy contemporary crystal. It's like a Crate and Barrel catalog.
I'm getting so wet. Christian is established as a man of good taste, as evinced by his contemporary
crystal, his playing Bach at the piano, and that's hot because it's sexy to be wanted by someone
who's qualified. It's not enough to be whizzled at by a catcaller, they have no discernment.
I mean, they whistle at anything that looks vaguely female. They whistle at me. And I don't
want to be whizzled at by the kind of person who would whistle at me. You want to be wanted by
someone who, with their exquisite and discriminating taste, selects you, the protagonist. This is not
a story about Christian's rippling abs and his tight buns. It's not a story about wanting a man.
It's a story about being wanted by a man. This is how the whole romance genre works. You emotionally
identify with the female protagonist, then you meet the sexy bad boy who's like a pirate or the CEO
of Business Incorporated, and then the hot part is just how badly this guy wants you, the protagonist,
usually singling her out of her other more qualified women, and eventually giving up
everything he loves to settle down and make babies with her. And a lot of these stories are kind of
silly. They conflate female sexuality with women's economic dependence on men in a way that's really
but I fundamentally resonate with the wish to be wanted. I want other people to think I'm sexy
and want to fuck me, you know? It makes me feel like I have value, and it fills up the void inside.
Is that so wrong?
The art critic John Berger wrote in his book Ways of Seeing about the European oil painting trope
of depainting a nude woman with a mirror and calling the painting vanity. The mirror was
often used as a symbol of the vanity of woman. The moralizing, however, was mostly hypocritical.
You painted a naked woman because you enjoyed looking at her. You put a mirror in her hand and
you called the painting vanity, thus morally condemning the woman whose nakedness you had
depicted for your own pleasure. The real function of the mirror was otherwise. It was to make the
woman connive in treating herself as, first and foremost, a sight. The notion of the vanity of
woman is a misogynistic trope that originates in male projection. It is the assumption that women
enjoy looking at themselves in the same way that men enjoy looking at them and are hence
complicit in their own objectification. I think the concept of the autogenophilic transsexual woman
is a combination of this trope with a homophobic trope. Misogyny casts women as narcissistic,
vain, in love with themselves, and homophobia casts queer men as hypersexual perverts. The
autogenophile is the ultimate combination of the two, the hypersexual pervert vainly in love with
the image of himself as a woman. 10. Autogenophilia Acceptance
So this whole video I've been treating autogenophilia kind of like an accusation from which I have to
exonerate myself. And I think it's justifiable considering I'm objecting to misrepresentation,
but some people might wonder, isn't this whole conversation getting kind of kink-shamy? Like,
is autogenophilia so wrong? Well, no, it's not. It's fine. There definitely are men who get turned
on by wearing women's clothes or thinking about having a female body, and as paraphilias go, this
is very harmless and I don't think it's anything to be ashamed of. But the question of whether
genuinely autogenophilic trans women exist is more complicated. The reason most trans women
consider the label autogenophilia to be such a stigma is that, as Blanchard says, women do not
get turned on merely by the thought of being women. Now as I've discussed, the problem with
Blanchard is he overextends the concept of autogenophilia to cover pretty much any sexual
feeling a cluster B trans woman can have. But I'm actually inclined to agree with him that being
turned on merely by the thought of being a woman is a fundamentally non-female state of mind,
and one that feels quite foreign to me. So a lot of trans women, I guess including me,
have the idea that you can't be both a woman and an autogenophile, hence the offense we take to
being characterized in this way. However, things get messier when you look into this some more.
Are there some genuinely autogenophilic transsexuals? Well, at first glance, the answer is yes.
I mean, there's always one isn't there. In this case, that one is Anne Lawrence,
a disciple of Blanchard and self-identified autogenophilic transsexual. From 1998 to 2011,
Lawrence collected 249 anonymous accounts of autogenophilia over the internet and published
them in her 2012 book Men Trapped in Men's Bodies. Great title Anne, very provocative,
very controversial, very politically incorrect, I have been triggered, well done.
What is this cover though? Come on Anne, get a statue of hermaphroditis or something on there.
So this book is filled with stories of trans women who have a past or present of pretty
autogenophilia-like fantasy and behavior. So what do we make of that? Well, a lot of this stuff,
like fantasies of being women or having sex as women or arousal during cross-dressing,
are what the trans community has de-stigmatizingly termed cross-sex gender fantasy. And among trans
women, particularly prior to transition, this kind of thing is pretty common. You'll see it all over
the place on trans subreddits, there's a blog called Cross Dreamers devoted to it, it's been
written about by Zinnia Jones and Julia Serrano. So within the trans community, this isn't even
controversial. It's not provocative, it's not politically incorrect. But how do we make sense
of this? Well, my thinking is that it's pretty hard to experience genuine female sexuality when
you've still got the evil magic of testosterone in your system, so you've got to get that out
and then this paraphilic stuff tends to go away. But how is this any different from Blanchard's
theory of autogenophilia? Well, basically it comes down to this. Blanchard's theory claims
that cross-sex gender fantasy or arousal is causal and essential. In this theory, if you're an
autogenophilic transsexual, you are essentially male, and any facsimile of womanhood you achieve
can only be honestly understood as the expression of an essentially male sexual urge. I reject the
idea that it's causal or essential, and I think the strongest piece of evidence that it isn't
essential is that even the rare trans women who identify as autogenophilic admit that after
transition, the cross-sex fantasy and arousal vanishes, yet they continue to prefer living as
trans women. Blanchard made this observation himself. Any viable theory relating to the
ideologies of autogenophilia and transsexualism must explain the following well-established
observation. Gender dysphoria in young non-homosexual males usually appears along with or subsequent to
autogenophilia. In later years, however, autogenophilic sexual arousal may diminish or disappear
while the transsexual wish remains or grows even stronger. The same conclusion is suggested by
the fact that surgical castration and estrogen treatment, which decrease libido and gender
dysphoric as in other men, usually have no effect on the desire to live as female or the resolve to
remain in that role. If these trans women are essentially men with a paraphilic desire to become
women, why would they continue preferring to live as women after the paraphilic desires go away?
Well, this is where things get really weird. According to Blanchard and Lawrence, the only
way to explain this is to shift the goalpost and say that actually autogenophilia isn't a
paraphilia at all. It's actually a sexual orientation. So what happens when you transition
is you actually pair bond with yourself, forming a kind of stale, sexless marriage with the woman
you've become. And if that sounds like it doesn't make any goddamn sense at all, it's because it
doesn't. A pair bond is a social relationship between two or more people. Are you saying that
trans women are a man and a woman inside this? Why do they continue falling in love with other
people? I can't even start with this. This video is too long, I'm getting cranky. Look, this seems
like the point where Occam's razor shuts down Blanchard's theory. Like, okay, maybe I subconsciously
created a female alter ego with which my original male ego has fallen in love. But maybe lots of
things. Maybe I subconsciously want to become my mother so I can fuck my father. Maybe the
elder gods ripped my primordial duality and twain and now I'm yearning for my female half. Or maybe
I'm just a woman who wants someone to fuck me every once in a while. 11. True autogenophiles.
Among the narratives recorded in Lawrence's book, there are admittedly a few accounts of trans women
whose primary sexuality and motivation throughout their transition does appear to be genuinely
autogenophilic. And I'm not going to say that these people are lying about their experiences
because that would be a terrible thing to do. Ultimately, ContraPoints is not a channel about
judging people, so I'm not going to say that these people aren't really trans. I mean, I find it weird
and hard to imagine, but whatever. I'm the one who's into people licking milk off my tits. And
wait till you see my sex robot. And look, if I had autogenophilic feelings, I would just tell you.
I've already admitted to things in this video that I wouldn't tell my own diary on my deathbed.
But I just don't. This theory doesn't describe my conscious motivations to transition. And that's
ultimately the reason most trans women hate this theory. Not because of wounded narcissism or
shattered erotic delusions. We just don't like being misrepresented. But you know who does love
this theory? She's been there literally the whole time. You know, I realize that by talking about
this, I'm subjecting myself to a lot of ruthless psychoanalysis. Whether it's going to come from
turf reddit, or trans people who are mad at me for even talking about this, or who knows,
maybe even Blanchard and Bailey themselves. So you know what? Why don't we just get that out of the
way right now? It's time to put this tranny on trial. 12. The Autogenophilia Trial of ContraPoints
All rise. The Autogenophilia Department of the Sexology Court is now in session.
Judge Bailey presiding. Calling the case of the gender-critical subreddit versus ContraPoints.
Are both sides ready? District Attorney Cockbean, ready for the subreddit, Your Honor.
Ready, I guess. Your Honor, ladies of the subreddit, the defendant is a man. A full-grown,
six-foot, wide-shouldered man in a dress. It's really more of a hospital gown? The evidence will
show that the defendant is not a woman, but a male pervert role-playing as such for his own
twisted sexual amusement. Abio, what are you holding? It's for horseback riding. Your Honor,
I would like to admit into evidence the following video clip uploaded to YouTube by the defendant
on June 13th, 2016. Oh god. Fishnets, garter belts, corsets. If these are not the trappings of an
autogenophile, then I don't have two X chromosomes. Agreed. Well, what do you have to say for yourself?
Well, why do you think I had all that fetish stuff in the first place? The court does not
need to hear about your perverse masturbation rituals. I bought that stuff for Rocky Horror.
What? Rocky Horror Picture Show. I used to do Frankenfurter. Your Honor, I'd like to
admit into evidence the following photograph. That's me at E Street Cinema in 2014. This one's
on the house, Kiwi Farms. Are you a Rocky Horror fan, Your Honor? Am I? It's just a jump to the left.
And take a step to the right. Put your hands on your hips. And bring your knees in tight.
But it's the pelvic thrust. Ew. So you like to dress up as another cross-dressing autogenophile.
How is that helping your case at all? Well, I know Rocky Horror is problematic,
but when you're living as a man, there aren't a lot of socially acceptable occasions to try
out cross-dressing. You know, it's basically Rocky Horror, Halloween, pretty much any time
it's socially allowed to be a freakish monster. And come to think of it, the scary monster
autogenophile is a trope I've played with since the beginning of this channel. The whole
ContraPoints aesthetic is very like autogenophilia chic. I originally was going to have the narrator
of this channel be more of a fictional character. The idea was to be like autogenophile Harry
Plinkett. And part of that is that I kind of hated myself. I thought I was just disgusting.
Part of it is that representing yourself as a scary monster actually does capture something
of the horror of gender dysphoria. And part of it is that identifying with the scary monster version
of yourself is actually kind of empowering. Like cis feminists, you have your thing about witches.
Okay, but monster version or not, real women do not wear fishnets and garter belts and corsets.
This is just male fetishism. Well, it's true that cis women generally don't dress that way, no.
I mean, unless they're doing Rocky Horror, it's actually pretty popular. But I never wear shit
like that anymore. In fact, it actually causes gender dysphoria because it makes me feel like
a male cross-dresser. Sometimes trans women start out with a fairly male conception of what women
wear. I guess that's true. A lot of trans women transition after a period of sort of trying things
out as a cross-dresser or a drag queen. But you know, it takes time to develop an authentic sense
of female fashion. Like, what did you wear when you were 14? That's what I thought. But also,
why not steal fashion ideas from drag queens and kinksters? Cis women do. They have some good ideas.
Without drag queens and kinksters, we'd have no contouring, no chokers. And what would we do then,
Abigail? What would we do then? I don't know what you would do. I think I could manage.
Your Honor, I would like to admit into evidence the following clip.
Is there a way to smash my ribs in? I'll smash them in. I'll smash the shit out of them.
These shoes are cute and I'll finally be able to hit my head on the tops of door frames.
Would you fuck me? I wouldn't. Your Honor, the defendant literally tries on high heels and
corsets in front of a mirror before posing to himself the question, would you fuck me? This,
Your Honor, is peak trans. Peak trans.
How do we even need to have a trial about this? Well, that scene depicts a kind of anguish,
not sexual pleasure. Would you fuck me is obviously a reference to Silence of the Lambs
and is what is known in the trans community as a joke. The corsets, the high heels, these were
primitive efforts at clawing my way out of manhood and they're efforts that I've left behind. Now
that I'm on female hormones and I live this way full time, I feel the way I'm supposed to feel
and I don't need to lean on that stuff for validation. I mean, I still do some things
that cis women don't do. I sleep in a bra, which I'm pretty sure no cis woman has ever done.
I do it because I need to feel something, God, anything, taking up space on my chest and feeling
that reassures me enough that I can fall asleep, not so I can look at myself in the mirror, not
so I can get off, so I can simply fall asleep. No one ever claimed that trans women are literally
the same as cis women. We have many experiences in common, but in other ways our experiences are
very different. Yes, and you don't have the oppression experiences that cis women have.
Well, you know what, Abigail? You're right. For the most part, I don't. But it's impossible for
us to have an actual conversation about this because you're just such a fucking asshole.
And if you honestly want to talk about trans women and oppression experiences,
don't have this conversation with someone who started transitioning five months ago.
Go find someone who transitioned decades ago and talk to them about their experiences as women.
Your honor, the defendant does not bleed. I find that pretty conclusive. As do I,
guilty as charged. 13. Final thoughts.
I think some cis people will be very congratulatory towards me for making this video. Some of them
will say things like, why can't all trans people be as calm and rational and open about their
experiences as you? Well, I'm very happy if you found the video elucidating, but I'd like cis
people to think a little bit harder about why not a lot of trans women talk about this. It's
humiliating, it's exhausting, and it's required me to publicize a detailed analysis of my most
private sexual feelings for the scrutiny of people who despise me. I've had to discuss things that
I'm honestly terrified to discuss because I'm afraid that people will never take me seriously
as a woman, hence ruining any chance I have at happiness. For trans women, this debate is
intensely personal and risky. Our lives and happiness are at stake. Meanwhile, Blanchard
and Bailey are not just neutral, devoted pursuers of scientific truth. They've continuously and
needlessly been derisive and cruel toward trans people, and they've misused their power as academic
authorities to misrepresent and humiliate us. No part of my present experience corresponds to the
core claim of their theory. I may drape myself in a hundred layers of defensive irony and depravity,
but I am at core a woman who is very thoroughly not in love with myself. So I have to hope,
for the sake of my own happiness, that someday I will be loved by someone who thinks of me as a
woman. Otherwise, I'm fucked. This has been a rough one, girls. I dare say you've earned a song.
Thanks for the times that you've given me The memories are all on my mind
And now that we've come to the end of our rainbow, there's something I must say out loud
You're once, twice, three times a lady And I love all of you, yes I do
And I love you, yes I do
And I love you
One more time
And just a step to the right
Put your hands on your hips
And bring your knees in tight It's just a pelvic frost
That really drives me insane
Let's do the time-o-pik-yun